However, we just added asynchronous actions to this validate function, so we need to be very careful
to make sure that it actually completes before JavaScript will move on to this action.
Right before we check to see if there are errors or not, we better first complete running all of our
validation checks, including those asynchronous calls to the database to check for the uniqueness of
username and email.
So to accomplish that, let's just go adjust our validate function to return a promise and then we can
await that promise down here in the register function.
Let me show you what I mean.
Let's scroll back up to our validate function.
And in order to wrap this into a promise, let's temporarily cut this into our clipboard.
So I want you to begin selecting right after the equals sign.
So begin selecting right before the word async and select all the way until the very end of that function.
So including the closing curly bracket for that overall function, cut that entire thing into your clipboard.
So now all that we're left with is user dot, prototype, dot, validate equals.
And now let's set that to equal an anonymous functions of function, parentheses, curly brackets within
the body of this function.
Let's return a new promise.
So return new uppercase promise.
And then within these parentheses, you just need to give a promise, a function with two parameters,
right?
Resolve and reject.
So actually within these parentheses we can just paste in our clipboard.
Now, it should look something like this within the parentheses for that function.
Let's give it resolve and reject parameters and then let's also convert it into an arrow function so
that this keyword still points towards our overall object.
To do that, we can just get rid of the word function here.
And then right after the parentheses with our parameters, we can just include the squished together
equal sign, greater than arrow symbol.
All right.
Now to complete this promise, let's scroll down.
And after our email check to see if the email has already been taken right after the closing of that
if block, so right here, let's just call resolve to signify that this operation or promise has actually
completed.
OK, now let's go leverage this validate promis down in our register function.
So back down and register.
Now, this validate function is going to return a promise.
So before a promise you can just include the word awaked.
So now all of our validation checks will actually complete before this code runs.
Now again, you can only use the await feature within an asynchronous function.
So right before the word function here, let's just add a sink, OK?
And now we just have one final issue to hurdle before this is complete.
Now that this is an asynchronous function, we need to pay attention to where and how we are calling
it this register function is what our user controller is calling.
So back in our user controller file, if we find the line that begins with exports, dot register,
right.
This is where we are calling the user register method.
And now that that's an asynchronous function, we need to make sure that we give it a chance to actually
complete before this next operation would begin.
So hang in there with me.
We're almost done.
We just want to adjust our register function so that it returns a promise and then we can await that
promise here within our controller.
This will not be as overwhelming as it might sound.
So let's jump back into our user model and down towards the bottom where we see USRAP prototype dot
register.
Let's just wrap this to live within a promise.
So just begin selecting right before the word async.
Select all the way down until the closing curly bracket.
Let's cut that into our clipboard.
OK, so now it's just user dot prototype dot register equals.
Let's set it to an anonymous function within this function.
We want to return a promise, so return new promise.
Within these parentheses we can just paste back in that function that's in our clipboard.
OK, within these functions parentheses, we want to include the parameters, resolve and reject.
And we also want this to be an arrow function so that it doesn't change that this key word.
So we just get rid of the word function.
And then right after these parentheses, add the arrow symbol.
Now, to complete this promise, we just need to call either resolve or reject at the right time.
So down here, when we say if there are no errors, then actually register the user.
Well, right after that closing curly bracket for the if block.
So right here, let's also add and else block so else curly brackets.
OK, now if this code runs, that means things were successful.
So right below this line where we work with the database, let's just call resolve and actually let's
make sure that this database action completes before we call resolve so we can just include the word
await here.
Right.
Because we know that Mongo DB methods return a promise.
OK, but if this else block runs, that means that there were errors.
So within the else block, we can just call reject and why don't we go ahead and reject with our array
of errors.
So within these reject parentheses, we can just say this dot errors.
OK, so we've successfully set up our register function to return a promise.
Let's go ahead and save this.
And now the final step is to just jump back into user controller and leverage that promise within our
controller's register function.
We're actually going to get rid of this if else block.
But before we delete it, in order to save ourselves a lot of typing, I want us to cut this into our
clipboard.
So I want you to begin selecting inside the block and then select down to this closing curly bracket
in parentheses for request session save with those six lines of code selected.
Let's cut into our clipboard, OK?
And now let's just delete this entire if else block.
All right, so this is all that we have left, if you need to pause the video to set up your register
function to look like this, that's OK.
Now, we know that our user register method is going to return a promise so we could use the await feature.
But in this case, I actually think it feels cleaner or more intuitive to use the DOT than catch approach.
So this is going to return a promise.
So right after it we can say DOT then and after that we can say dot catch.
If our promise is successful and resolves, then we'll take care of it.
If it rejects catch, we'll take care of it.
So within these parentheses, let's give both then and catch functions.
Let's use arrow functions.
So set of parentheses, the arrow symbol, curly brackets dropdown.
So do the same thing within catch parentheses, arrow symbol, curly brackets.
All right, now the catch is going to run if our promise rejects.
So within this catch function we can just paste in our clipboard.
Within these parentheses for our catch function, let's actually include a parameter, let's call it
regg errors, and this will be the value that the promise rejects with let's reference that instead
of users errors here.
Just so this way, our controller doesn't have to be aware of the data structure.
It's only calling the promise and letting the model deal with all of the data and the variable names,
so on and so forth.
So on this line, I would change users errors to just regg errors.
And now we just need to say what we want to do if the registration is successful.
Now, instead of sending users to an awkward intermediate screen that just says congrats, why don't
we instead just redirect them to the home page, but update their session data so that they're actually
logged in.
So within our then function, let's begin working with session data.
So request session dot user, right.
To actually log them in.
We'd want to create a user property on the session and let's just set that to equal an object.
And for now, all we really need is to store their user name.
So we'll give it a property of username and set that to whatever username they just successfully registered
with.
So lowercase user data dot username.
In the future we can set things up so that our controller doesn't even need to be aware of this data
structure and instead our promise would resolve back with the necessary data.
But for now, this will do the job OK.
After we've set this session data, then we just want to redirect the user back to the home page URL
to save a bit of typing.
We can just recycle these three lines of code that will manually save the session data and then once
that's actually completed, perform the redirect.
So let's just grab these three lines of code, copy them then R then function after we update the session.
Data dropdown paste in your clipboard.
Cool.
Here it is all on the screen at once.
If you need to pause the video to catch up, that's OK.
Let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
So back in the browser, you can always just refresh to get rid of the previous flash validation message.
OK, first, let's test out the unique username and email features, so if I try to register with the
name Brad and Brad at Brad Dotcom, the system should recognize that those are already taken.
Awesome.
That username is already taken.
That email is already being used.
But if I choose a unique username of puppy and my email is puppy puppy dotcom and I choose a valid password
as soon as I click to submit.
Awesome, you can see it redirects me to the homepage, you URL, and thanks to that session data,
it recognizes me as actually and successfully logged in.
Hello puppy.
Your feed is empty.
That's going to bring this lesson to a close.
But you might have noticed in the top right menu that it shows a little avatar or profile photo.
But so far it doesn't matter if I'm logged in as the Brad user account or the cat user account or even
now the puppy user account.
That Avatar is always the same image.
That's because it's hard coded to this placeholder image for the time being.
But in our very next lesson, we're going to learn how to pull in a relevant image from the gravitas
service based on the current logged in users email address.
Not only should this be a lot of fun to set up, but what's cool is it will also be our final lesson
before we change topics from user accounts and sessions and move on to letting users actually create
posts.
So let's take care of this profile photo and then we will start making a lot of progress very quickly
in this course.
Let's keep our momentum rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.